Okay, let's go through and actually
create a RestTemplate. And what we wanna
do here is see how my application is.
I got the main class here. It's in the
springrestclientexamples package. So
under that, I am going to come in and
create a New Package, config and you
don't have to do it this way.
But this just makes it kind of a handy way here. And I'm gonna add in a
new class the RestTemplateConfig. We're
gonna use the Builder for this. And I can
come up here and say @, we're creating a
Java Configuration class for Spring
Framework. And I wanna add in a new
Bean and call him public RestTemplate and
this is going to take in a RestTemplateBuilder. So this is a builder class it's
kind of like a factory that we're gonna
request a RestTemplate from, from the
Spring Framework. So this component the
RestTemplateBuilder that is gonna be
auto configured by Spring Boot for us.
Well we wanna say, return here
builder.build(). And this builder actually
takes in a lot of different options. So
if we had to do some type an
authentication we could do that here.
Hopefully I'll get in. I'll find a spot,
where we can get into that and the
future of the course but right now I'm
just going through a very simple example
that we wanna utilize here. So that
gives us that. And let's come in here and
also create a package for service.
And here, what I wanna do is get this
REST service, and let's get a list of
User objects. You know what just be an
interface. Let's go ahead. Well so add
in an implementation of that.
And in, we'll implement the methods.
And now, also I wanna do is also Command + N
for a constructor. And again since we
are gonna make this a Service, he doesn't
need to start up or I'm sorry because we
have a constructor there Spring will
automatically autowire in a RestTemplate for us. So now, what we wanna
do is go ahead and implement in that
REST service. And actually before we
do that, there's one thing I forgot I
have to implement. So let's take a look
at this postman again and come in here
and take a look at this. I made one
mistake there. So I thought this was a
list. And actually, this is actually an
outer object there that we don't
implement or at least I did not
implement in the exercise review. So
let's go take care of that right now.
And in my domain, I'm gonna call that
UserData. And this is gonna be a List.
And by convention, what we wanna do is
make this data that property data so
that way the binding will work properly.
So we're gonna call this data. And just
do this getter and setters. And of
course I could use Project Lombok
here to provide that. Just kind of old
habit there to do that. So now let's come
over here. Back to our service
implementation.
I say restTemplate, and we're gonna
use the method. There's actually a number
of different options here as far as
methods that we want. And we are gonna
say getForObject and come back here to
postman. And we are gonna take this right
here. That URL out there. So I'm just
gonna limit 3. Now, I did bring in a
limit so it could ideally concatenate
that in. Actually let's go ahead and do
that. I'll show you a more elegant
way of doing this in the near future.
We also want to say, so now this tells
that what class where the data type that
we want it to bind to. And in this case,
what do I do?
So now, that's gonna return that and come
up here. And I want to write my test for
it. So I'm gonna write a test for this.
SpringRunner.class. And we also want to
do the... so we're gonna autowire that
instance in. Let's go ahead and create a
test class for that.
And this should be a size of 3. So
let's go ahead and test that and run
that right now. You can see that we got a
failure and I actually came back
expected 3 but we got 4. That's
interesting. Double check that. And it's
curious so let's go ahead and what I'm
gonna do right now is run this in the
debugger. Before it gets there, let's go
ahead and set a breakpoint and let's
debug that. See what's actually
coming back. So we did get four users and
let's take a look at that. So we have a
complete User object there. We can see
that how the data binding is working and
we didn't really set any annotation so
Jackson is doing all this for us. We're
getting that data there. And we are
getting valid users coming back. So that
we can see that the API did in fact
return back four different User objects
so that's a interesting behavior of the
API. So let's go ahead and set this to
4 so we have a passing test. And we're
gonna stop that. Now let's come back over
here to the run dialog, and let's go
ahead and rerun this. So that's kind of a
weird behavior. I wasn't expecting API to
have a limit of three and returned back
four. But in this case that API is doing
that. So kind of it invalid test. And
let's go ahead and review this a little
bit. So I just want in this video, my goal
was to get you introduced to a Spring
RestTemplate and we're just doing a
simple GET request. There's a lot more
capabilities of RestTemplate and I will
be exploring those coming up in future
videos. This is just get your feet wet
with it. Well you can see how easy it was.
So created the configuration class we're
injecting a instance
for RestTemplate in and we're using the
method getForObject or passing in a
URL in production for something like
this. I would externalize this into a
properties file. And then, there's ways to
build up the request parameters there. So
we will also get into that in a future
video. But here, we are giving it the URI
that we want to pull the data from. See
in the limit and user data. You can see
here we are passing in a limit of three
so that is getting bound to our
implementation here. So that would
be a limit of three that comes in. For
some reason it's returning four but I
see that we are getting valid data
back there. I went into the debugger so
you can see how we just set up POJOs and
that the binding is happening based on
the name of the property. So Jackson is
doing that automatically. There are
annotations, there's actually a number
annotations for Jackson, where we have a
lot of control over the data binding. But
in this case, we are leveraging the
automatic default data bindings by the
property name. So kind of a really slick
feature of Jackson and so you can see
how easy it was to create our data model
and then bind that JSON object from a
GET request using Spring RestTemplate.